# verifiableCredentialsApp
verifiableCredentials
Problem Statement:
--------------------------------

The Credential verification process is usually done at the last stages of any selection/application process, which causes a massive waste of time and money. Verifying all credentials for everyone at initial stage is also hectic work. But credentials are needed to be verified to ensure trust of the candidate.

Solution:
--------------

To create a Digitally Verifiable Resumes/profile with Unique Credential ID’s. (With Provider and Consumer End platform)
Resume can be fake with filling of words, But autogenerated credential resume are auto verifiable, can be verified at any stage of the process. Hence making the process speed and low cost.
Document verification time and Number of candidates selected vs number of candidates applied can be considered as impact metrics to analyze the effect of the solution.
Beckn protocol, UI/UX, Java script – angular. Back end – Java , SpringBoot, PostgreSQL will be used for developing the platform and interface functionality.
Complexity can be a one of the constraints involving lot of coding, Also the data storage can be a potential constraint.
Platform independency, robust and reliability, scalability and security are the few reasons for opting the forth mentioned technology/tools which will be  used for solution providing.
The solution can be implemented immediately with proper Standard Operating Procedures (SOP).
It has scope with AI/ML implementations with proper recommender algorithms. It can be used in Learning, Coaching and Scholarships, internships, job searching and application sorting, also extended to areas like medical records, stores and inventory management.
